---
layout: post
title:  "7. Apply Instructional Design Principles"
date:   2017-02-01 15:31:14 -0500
permalink: /apply-ID-principles//
categories: jekyll update
---
<style>
table {
    border-collapse: collapse;
    width: 100%;
}

td, th {
    border: 1px solid #dddddd;
    text-align: left;
    padding: 8px;
}

</style>

| Artifact       | Title      | Course  |
| ---------------|------------| --------|
| [Performance Analysis]({{site.url}}/docs/Wochna_EDCI528_PerformanceAnalysis.pdf)| Performance Analysis: Smart Hill Community College | EDCI 52800: Human Performance Technology |
| [Solutions and Evaluation Plan]({{site.url}}/docs/Wochna_EDCI528_SolutionsEvaluation.pdf)| Solutions and Evaluation Plan: Smart Hill Community College | EDCI 52800: Human Performance Technology |
| [Paper Prototype]({{site.url}}/docs/Wochna_EDCI569_PaperPrototype.pdf)| E-Learning Paper Prototype: Evidence-Based Writing for the Academic Literacy Skills Test | EDCI 56900: Introduction to E-Learning |


-----
<p></p>

My development of the competency of applying instructional design principles is demonstrated in two reports prepared for EDCI 52800. For these assignments, I examined a case study about a community college in the midst of a stalled plan to transition courses online, and completed a performance analysis followed by solutions and evaluation plan. Evidence is also provided in the paper prototype I submitted for EDCI 56900. This paper prototype is for an elearning course that I created to help teacher candidates at my college pass one of their teaching certification exams.

### Identifies and analyzes learning and performance problems

In my performance analysis, I conducted a complete analysis of the performance system at the college, identifying performance gaps and their root causes and generating a plan for continued investigation of those gaps. I highlighted and analyzed a host of environmental and individual factors, as categorized in Gilbert’s Behavior Engineering Model (as described in Stolovitch & Keeps, 2004), including lack of incentives, lack of consequences, lack of department support, lack of time, lack of skill, and lack of resources.

### Designs, plans, and develops instructional interventions using appropriate strategies and techniques

The project detailed in the paper prototype is an online course titled, *Passing the Academic Literacy Skills Test: The Extended-Response Item*. I designed and developed this self-paced module to prepare candidates to write the extended-response essay of the Writing to Sources section of the [Academic Literacy Skills Test](https://www.nystce.nesinc.com/TestView.aspx?f=HTML_FRAG/NY202_TestPage.html) using a series of progressively complex demonstration and practice activities. The paper prototype includes my assessment of the context and learners, the objectives generated by my goal analysis, an assessment plan featuring items for all objectives and sub-skills, a site map and wireframes reflecting the digital prototype, and complete documentation of the instructional content. I evaluated the effectiveness of my instructional strategies using Merrill’s (2001) Five Star Instructional Design Rating and supported a four-star rating.

### Develops an evaluation plan for a project based on stated goals and recognized standards

In my solutions and evaluation plan, I revisited the case of the community college for which I conducted the performance analysis described earlier in order to design a coordinated system of interventions and evaluations to address the problems of inadequate performance support, task interference, and insufficient motivation. I prepared guidelines for implementing four interventions and developed a three-level evaluation plan based on the goals set by the college and the standards outlined in Kirkpatrick’s four-level of evaluation model (Kirkpatrick & Kirkpatrick, 2006). I proposed evaluating the reactions and changes in behavior related to transitioning online courses of both department chairs and faculty members on a recommended Transition Team, and the results, in terms of number of courses transitioned, at the department- and college-wide level.

### Applying Instructional Design Principles: Personal Growth

The competency of applying instructional design principles has been at the foundation of my education, and nearly all of my work for this program has contributed to my developing skills in this area. As a result of this growth, I have also been able to improve my instruction and assessment activities in my current position as a college educator. However, I am not yet fully fluent in these practices and thus have room for improvement. I know from my teaching experience that it can be tempting to skips in the design process, but I now recognize that to fully internalize these skills, I must commit to thoroughness. I have learned the importance of being systematic when analyzing problems, designing interventions, and developing evaluations in my future projects. I am currently applying these principles to create an elearning course for my practicum, and this practice is bringing me closer to my goals for expertise.

<br>


#### References
<p style="font-size:12px;">

Kirkpatrick, D. L. & Kirkpatrick, J. D. (2006). <i>Evaluating Training Programs: The Four Levels.</i> San Francisco, CA: Berrett-Koehler.
<br>
<br>
Merrill, M. D. (2001). <i>Five star instructional design rating.</i>
<br>
<br>
Stolovitch, H. D. & Keeps, E. J. (2004). <i>Training ain’t performance.</i> Alexandria, VA: ASTD
Press.
</p>



